Jupyter notebook and CSV file data

The aim of this work is finding ensemble models providing high Accuracy and low number of False Negatives (FN) on imbalanced medical data. Models need to have high interpretability of results through outputs and logic through visualizations.
Although the overall maternal death rate in the UK is relatively low, there is evidence about “inequality in the mortality rates for women of different ethnic backgrounds, ages, and socio-economic circumstances” [1], up to four times higher for certain groups. Under-representation of certain patients leads to difficulties in correct classification associated with imbalanced data. Furthermore, implementation of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in the medical sector has challenges such as lack of trust among patients and staff, and possible occurrence of bias.
Research utilized experimental methodology using ensemble models as they are suitable for classification of imbalanced data. Experiment compared four models: a Single Classification Tree, Bagging of Trees, Random Forest, and Extra Trees, as Python project written in Jupyter.
As results the interpretability was successful for all models, with simple ways of changing subgroups of patients. Parameter tuning improved models performance by increasing Accuracy for some models (Single Classification Tree). Reduction of FN on whole data was successful for all models apart from Random Forest. Reduction of FN was successful on all models for patients over the age of 40. 
Limitations of this experiment included small data source contributing to low generalization. Data has a significantly different “age” distribution than UK maternal data. Possible adverse outcomes from blindly applied algorithms are countered with the proposition of AI and health workers working together on interpretable models.
